the role of honesty in politics is
complex you know um start off by saying
the exact opposite of what I'm gonna say
most this video sometimes I feel like my
fellow vegans on the Internet are too
honest that they're talking about
elements of their lives or even elements
to their political beliefs that I feel
they just shouldn't mention or should
should tone down a bit you know what I
mean um it was a clip of vegan gains
talking about buying guns his plans to
to buy and own guns sounds bad whether
it's I'm sure he's doing in completely
legal way I'm sure he's done all the
paperwork I'm sure he's completely
entitled to uh to own those guns I don't
know go to a firing range and train with
them okay I tell you it sounds bad any
hearing that clip from him
I thought you shouldn't have mentioned
that it simply as a good politician you
know you're not running for the
Republican Party you're not running for
the Republican Party in Texas you know
if your career in life is being a kind
of influential opinion maker and
veganism you can buy guns you can own
guns you can enjoy your constitutional
rights and privileges I in whatever
country I assume he's doing it in the US
I don't know but maybe you maybe you
shouldn't mention it maybe you should
keep it yourself on the other hand as
you know on this channel I'm always
talking about keeping it real and being
honest and telling the truth and some of
this reflects my experience in
straightforward politics whether to you
know politics is in political science
history of wars revolutions governments
etc etc some of it reflects my
experience in the world of education
having spent so many years in
universities etc etc some reflects my
experience in small party politics like
the Green Party are going to City Hall
direct advocacy political activism that
kind of thing but you know some of it
reflects my experience and Buddhism in
Buddhism we have a huge problem with
people basically being converted through
lies and half-truths people
misrepresent Buddhism as being the
religion of gender equity of being a pro
feminist religion and bring people in
and then what happens when those people
figure out that it's really not true
that the status of women in Buddhism is
problematic status of women in Buddhism
is better than Islam it's better than
the status of women in Judaism or
Christianity yes but it's still
problematic Buddhism is not the great
religion gender equity it's just just
not the case and at some point they get
interested in what the ancient texts say
and they find this fissure between the
religion they were sold and the religion
they actually bought religion they
actually bought into uh so many slavery
sects meditation anything that's bought
and sold or promised the meditation but
one of the obvious ones though is hell
I met huge numbers of people both white
people and Asian people who were sold a
scientific version of Buddhism where
there's no afterlife and nobody goes to
hell if they're something that was like
a major thing because these people used
to be Christian they used to be members
of some other religions like oh no
unlike Christianity in Buddhism there is
no hell and they're they're reassured of
this by their Dharma master or
meditation teacher or some horseshit
yeah well then you buy a plane ticket to
Thailand and you go to any any Buddhist
temple in Thailand they've got to have
at least one painting of of hell maybe
statues maybe a whole garden maybe whole
diorama showing you just how terrible
hell is after you die you know what then
either it discredits the whole religion
or discredit your particular Dharma
master it discredits your particular
sect of the religion either the person
responds but getting more interest in
the real history of the religion doing
some independent research some
independent reading or they just get
turned off and walk away and say this is
a scam it is it's a scam you know and
it's it's painful me for this reason
both my political background and these
other things prepare me for seeing this
in veganism it pains me to see it in
veganism partly because the people doing
it often have very very good intentions
so use one short example things talk
about the big issue of half
you know I see many people including
Claire Michelle shadow declare Michelle
saying that you know when you eat meat
you you magically absorb the misery of
the animal now sometimes that it's
that's expressed as the stress hormones
of the animal sometimes it's more in
terms of an idea of karma you know
sometimes it's more magical so there's
more scientific or scientistic in its in
its clothing but the idea that you're
actually becoming unhappy or stressed
out because you're absorbing some
magical substance and suffering the
animal and I've met many meat-eaters who
believe that - but they believe that
that's only if the animal suffered while
it died that you know that if the animal
had a painless death and you won't get
this contagious misery from the animal
you know and so therefore the theory
goes and I think Claire Michelle said
there's tons of vegans say this you know
that when you stop eating meat and
animal products you know your your
spirit becomes lighter and brighter or
you become happier because you're no
longer poisoning yourself with this
magical invisible material from the
corpses of of dead animals you know
wouldn't it be convenient if we could
all believe that huh
just I do not want to be part of a
religion that's built on a lie I don't
want that from Judaism I don't want it
from Buddhism I don't want that from
veganism I don't want that from the
Republican Party I don't want that from
the Liberal Party whatever the
conservative party whatever the
political party is in your country you
know I want everything to be real real
real and you know within the arts
there's a kind of reality there's a kind
of realness in a rap song where every
single word is a lie where it's all
fiction and yet it's depicting something
that to me is real that to me is is
moving and meaningful and for sure we
get into those types of riddles in in
politics and the the practical politics
of veganism but look you know so the big
the big question will veganism make you
happy is it a good idea to sell veganism
as something that makes you happy
obviously
Oh God watch my one-hour video with
zoria zoria the the agony of activism
you can if you don't know spells re you
can search for the agony of activism and
you'll find that that video you can also
get it as a podcast listen to it while
you walk around and workout at the gym
or whatever there's a lot of misery and
there are a lot of ways in which I can
say if you're unhappy before you become
vegan you may just be more unhappy you
know there's no reason why an awareness
of the the pervasive and pernicious evil
of industrialized agriculture would make
you happy even if you're doing your
small part to separate yourself from
that to repudiate it to refuse to be a
part of it
IIIi can't imagine what kind of person
would be on an ego trip just because
they stopped eating yogurt to feel great
to feel wonderful when they wake up in
the morning and sit down next to in
between two people both of them are
eating yogurt I don't feel great I feel
terrible I feel revolted when I see that
yogurt I see behind it all of those
invisible stages of animal exploitation
and along with them you know the
unfathomable damage to the Earth's
atmosphere the Earth's water just the
land the waste of human talent the waste
of energy the waste of food and
everything else I mean the food you know
being given to the animals to produce
you know the food for humans and so on
and you know ultimately of course the
the image of animals living the whole
lives surrounded by concrete and steel
etc I yeah I'm not eating yogurt and
everyone else is and I don't I don't get
an ego boost from that I don't feel good
I don't feel happy you know my refusal
to acquiesce in that most of the time is
is merely symbolic I know you know the
impact I make is is so tiny as one
person that it's impossible to anyway
some other type of person maybe feels
tremendously happy with that but it's
very hard to come on the internet and
try to sell that in the same sense we
talk about selling Buddhism selling a
politically oh it's very hard to come on
the internet and try to sell that as a
life long vigil as a life of grim
dutiful misery
of a life of witnessing you know with
horror and anxiety the destruction of
the world's environment for the sake of
stupidity self-indulgence cruelty and
just you know meaningless cultural
expectations the meaningless cultural
fetish for leather boots as opposed to
vegan boots for a wool sweater instead
of a cotton sweater because how many
animals have to die so we can play out
that cultural ideal fetish for wool as
opposed to other materials that are
actually more effective you know yeah
it's horrifying and the for me the sense
of horror never goes away it never
washes off i eyelid i never get out of
the shower feeling great about myself
because i'm vegan I don't I'm confronted
by the sight of chicken feet of the feet
hacked off of chickens every day and it
never feels okay I saw I saw on the
street here the other day a pet vendor
and he had kittens in cages in glass
translucent glass cages and next to them
he had pet alligators I'm sorry I don't
know if they were alligators or
crocodiles I can't tell he had baby
alligators the kittens that would have
been miserable anyway being you know
waiting to be bought as pets were
obviously terrified and couldn't do
anything to escape the fact that they
were millimeters away from from another
animal that obviously they must regard
as a threat or as a as a predator
I don't know wouldn't it wouldn't it be
convenient to be inviting people to
veganism with the promise that this will
make you happier and of course as you
guys know some vegans on the internet
take a step further and say veganism
will cure your depression veganism will
cure even serious mental disorders like
schizophrenia but I mean it's much more
common to hear a vague sense of it
curing your depression of it
you happy of it of it making you less
unhappy and you know I I can't I can't
buy into that partly because I think
you're you're absolutely setting people
up for that sense of disappointment that
I described in Buddhism that results in
it would result in discrediting veganism
and I think it results in discrediting
you personally it destroys the trust
between you and the person you you made
those promises to and depending on where
you're living I mean you know everywhere
you go it's a struggle being being vegan
and Saskatchewan did not make me happy
oh my god it was misery to be vegan and
Saskatchewan just just in terms of
getting enough to eat every day you know
and the attitudes the people around you
and here in China I know some of you
think think
yone on Kunming China is is is vegan
paradise it's not and and the way people
some people are to you but some
people are friendly about it and they
still sell you meat I went to a bout to
Deanna a shop selling you know buns and
I went and talked to them for ages and
there were four people on staff and they
were very friendly and very bright and
smiling at me and enthusiastic and I
talked to you are you sure this doesn't
have pork fat it sure doesn't have any
meat at all and vegan did all in Chinese
talking soon they're all really happy to
help me really happy and helpful and
supportive and they sell me as you know
for buns I walk away from the stand I
tear the buns open because I'm gonna
look carefully I'm not just gonna bite
into them there were whole chunks of
beef it wasn't subtle it wasn't like
invisible pork me you think they would
be proud it wasn't ground meat either
wasn't wasn't hamburger it was this was
expensive pieces of dead cow in homeland
and nicest people in the world you know
and yeah other people are jerks to you
about it
I eat OC whatever Saskatchewan was hard
in very different ways from China
wherever you go it's a struggle but that
is what I say to people when I talk to
them about being vegan I don't tell them
it's gonna make you happy it's gonna
solve all your problems it's gonna I
don't tell them it's gonna cure your
depression I definitely don't tell them
it's gonna cure your bipolar disorder
or anything else you know if you're
miserable now and you take on the
responsibility to be vegan you take on
the ethical commitment to be vegan that
may only make you more unhappy because
it's one more ethical commitment in your
life if you're the type of person that
gets a sense of satisfaction from doing
your duty from doing your duty well then
you may have that satisfaction but a lot
of people are not that personality type
a lot of people do not feel that way a
lot of people I think just experience it
as a burden and they experience the
alienation for me everyday sitting down
with the other students here it's it's
an issue
I'm alienated from the other students in
my school you may be alienated from your
co-workers being alienated from your
friends and family etc etc etc but this
is the sense in which I urge everyone to
do it and I urge you to do it and I
remind you of just how worthless is in
contrast to any other endeavor okay
another aspect of my experience with
politics is in charity work it's not
until you get out in the real world or
start reading secret reports you know
secret reports from from governments and
charity organizations NGOs in
international education most of what you
see on TV has ethically simple
intervention of human beings helping of
human beings is tremendously complex and
has terrible unforeseen consequences it
is entirely possible to donate money to
a project that is attempting to help
starving people that ends up starving
more of them to death it's entirely
possible to donate money to a project
that's supposed to improve agriculture
in a third world country to alleviate
starvation and instead it destroys
agriculture in that province in that
region in the area that they've targeted
one of the most extreme reports I read
was a project that resulted in the total
depopulation of the villages that was
supposed to be helping in other words
the poverty-stricken people living in
the villages being helped by a French
government charity they were helped so
much that they decided to abandon their
homes and flee the air
rather than live under the tyranny of
that charity it's a fascinating case
study and the charity did among the
things that did it built a bridge and
that is now a bridge that connects
nowhere to nothing because the local
inhabitants abandoned the area you can
dig wells to try to provide water to
people I've no drinking water and the
wells are poisoned with arsenic and it
has unbelievable unforeseen negative
consequences etc etc the simplest
imaginable projects you think you're
doing something positive by building a
school in a third-world country and it's
a disaster most forms of intervention
humanitarian intervention it's so hard
to do something morally good that is
only and purely morally good military
intervention it's on another level I
wouldn't you love to believe you could
have a military intervention that's only
and purely morally good but we all know
people get killed on the way in people
that killed on the way out military
intervention is incredibly murky and yet
you know the vicissitudes of political
history are so extreme that when we look
back on many of the world's greatest
disasters the question we always ask
ourselves is why didn't we intervene
sooner and normally it's because at the
time people were wary of intervention
because the last time they did one it
was a disaster maybe hundreds of
thousands died maybe millions died and
the outcomes were unclear you know we're
not simply positive the reason why it's
possible for me to propound veganism to
encourage all of you watching this to be
vegan to encourage my own grandmother to
be vegan and my own granddaughter to be
vegan why I can bring that to everyone I
can't encourage Yuja to get involved
with humanitarian work in Cambodia I
can't encourage you to sign up and join
the army and support our endless war
effort in Syria Iraq etc I can't do that
in good conscience I have no idea what
the outcomes are going to be on a very
specific base you look at a specific
project at specific war who wants to
sign up by the way to get involved in
the
the still ongoing war in the Ukraine
tempted if you've got humanitarian
instincts like I do on some level I am
tempted you know any of those disasters
they all appear to me they all appeal to
me they all tug on my heartstrings all
of them really veganism in my whole life
is one of the only things where I can
say to you honestly this is purely and
wholly and totally morally good you're
doing something good and you're not
doing any harm you're doing something
good with zero risk for yourself zero
risk to others zero unforeseen and
unforeseeable
negative consequences this although it's
a discipline that's gonna change your
life everyday three meals a day all day
it's gonna change your life every time
you try to buy clothing suits shoes you
name it it's gonna change your life in a
million tiny ways and if you're
miserable now you may be only more
miserable afterwards but I've got to
tell you this is one of the only things
I know that is an unalloyed moral good